What does your Christmas smell like? Is it roasting gammon, the sweet glaze charring and caramelising as the scent wafts through the house? Or the mouth-watering smell of salty skin crisping as an enormous turkey enters its final hour in the oven?With parents from England and Finland, our festive feast was always on Christmas Eve, and yet it was rare to see a turkey in the oven. More likely there would be huge duck breasts being browned in a pan, hot fat spitting across the kitchen. Or perhaps guinea fowl roasting slowly, mum muttering under her breath that she mustn't overcook it. One year it was a Cornish hen, and after we'd ticked goose off the list it seemed mum had run out of fowl to experimentally roast.But it's biscuits, not birds that remind me of this time of year. I can take or leave turkey, but without my spicy Finnish biscuits it's simply not Christmas.For as long as I can remember, early December has seen the buckled and browned baking trays coming out, biscuit cutters retrieved from where they were hidden 12 months before, baking paper torn off in long sheets, and bags of aromatic spices lined up on the kitchen counter. To one side, a well-thumbed copy of Grandma Wivenhoe's biscuit recipe.For me those spicy biscuits with a bite of ginger and the warmth of cloves are the closest I get to spending an hour or two in my Finnish grandmother's kitchen. She lived a world away in a small English village, while mum and I sweated in a Cape Town summer, rolling and cutting and baking and decorating. Christmas tree- and reindeer-shaped cutters were always the first choice. Baking those biscuits is one of my fondest Christmas memories, and while it would have been lovely to share those afternoons with the elfin face and sparkling eyes of my Grandma Wivenhoe, her spirit was always there in the scribbled ingredients.This year, in my own kitchen, her memory will once again be revived. I plan to introduce her to my three-year-old son. With any luck he'll keep the tradition alive for a fourth generation, and come to learn that the real smell of Christmas isn't sizzling turkey or crispy potatoes or succulent stuffing, but the rich, spicy smell of Grandma Wivenhoe's Christmas biscuits. I hope you enjoy them...GRANDMA WIVENHOE'S CHRISTMAS BISCUITSMakes approximately 60 biscuits.Ingredients:675g cake flour30ml (2 tbsp) ground cinnamon10ml (2 tsp) ground allspice45ml (3 tbsp) ground ginger (or less according to taste)10ml (2 tsp) ground cloves2.5ml ( tsp) bicarbonate of soda250g butter, cubed125ml ( cup) syrup1 extra-large egg250g (1 cups) sugar125ml ( cup) cream, whippedMethod:1) Sift flour, spices and bicarbonate of soda into a bowl. Rub in the butter with your fingertips until the mixture resembles breadcrumbs.2) Add the remaining ingredients and mix by hand or in a food processor until you have a stiff dough.3) Wrap in clingfilm and refrigerate for 12 hours. Bring dough to room temperature for easier rolling.4) Preheat the oven to 180 C. Roll dough out and cut into shapes. If dough becomes soft and unworkable, return it to the fridge for a while.5) Place biscuits on greased baking trays and bake in batches for 8-10 minutes or until cooked and golden.TIP: The biscuits improve if kept in an airtight container for 10-14 days before eating.